# newsreader-hadoop

## Introduction

This project provides a conversion of the newsreader NLP pipeline so that it
can run on Apache Hadoop clusters. The pipeline consists of a series of shell
scripts where the execution on Hadoop is orchestrated by a
[Cascading](http://www.cascading.org) flow. The pipeline scripts and their
dependencies are distributed over a Hadoop cluster via distributed cache. The
implementation strives to make use of data locality as much as possible by
storing the input and output documents as sequence files on HDFS.

For more information on the newsreader project, please visit the project site:
<http://www.newsreader-project.eu>.

## Building

Ant build scripts and Ivy dependency resolution scripts are included with the
project. How you use these is dependent on your programming environment the
following works for eclipse:

1. Clone the project
2. Open eclipse and create a new Java project; Do not use the default location
   but select the directory you just cloned into as location for the project
3. The source files should now appear in your project. Make sure to install the
   IvyDE package and Ivy Ant tasks available here:
   <http://ant.apache.org/ivy/ivyde/download.cgi>
4. With the Ivy packages installed the ivy.xml can be used for resolving the
   dependencies: right click the file and 'Add Ivy Library...'.
5. Make a subdirectory within the project: newsreader-hadoop-components and
   download the accompanying components from
   [BeeHub](https://beehub.nl/Newsreader/newsreader-hadoop-components) to this
   directory.
6. Use the Ant build tasks (Ant view in Eclipse) to build the jar and zip the
   components.

## Running the pipeline

Once the component zip file and the newsreader-hadoop.jar have been created
running the pipeline should be straightforward:

### Upload documents and components to HDFS.

For the components simply place the zip in a location on HDFS using the Hadoop
command line tools. For the documents you can use the loader tool supplied by
the newsreader-hadoop.jar:

    yarn jar newsreader-hadoop.jar loader load [local directory with NAF files] [destination path on HDFS] [number of documents per sequence file]

Keep in mind that the amount of mappers is determined by either the size of the
sequence file(s) on HDFS or the amount of separate files (if the separate files
are smaller than the HDFS block size). In other words the documents per file
setting can be used to control parallelism of the pipeline run. The documents
are stored in the sequence files as 'key,value = Text,Text' where the key is
the original file name (you must use unique file names) and the value is the
NAF xml text.

### Run the pipeline on the documents on HDFS.

You can use the pipeline tool supplied by the newsreader-hadoop.jar:

    yarn jar newsreader-hadoop.jar pipeline [input documents on HDFS] [output path on HDFS] [path for failed documents on HDFS] [path to components zipfile on HDFS]

Optionally you can monitor the pipeline using
[Driven](http://www.cascading.org/2014/02/14/driven-for-cascading/). In order
to do so add the driven jar to the Hadoop classpath:

    export HADOOP_CLASSPATH=[path to driven jar file]

Finally, Cascading creates a newsreader.dot file on execution; this graphical
representation of the pipeline can be examined in Graphviz.

### Retrieve the output documents from HDFS.

You can use the loader tool supplied by the newsreader-hadoop.jar:

    yarn jar newsreader-hadoop.jar loader unload [documents on HDFS] [path to local file system]

## Extending the pipeline

Extending the pipeline will require some minor adaptations to the Java code in
the newsread-hadoop project. The components where slightly altered for running
on Hadoop. The convention is that components should implement a run.sh scrip
that reads NAF input from standard in and output the annotated NAF to standard
out. In addition components receive two extra arguments: an absolute path to
the component location on the Hadoop slave nodes and an absolute path to a
location that can be used as temporary scratch on the Hadoop slave nodes
(unique for each attempt). Components can implement and use extra arguments
after these two (see for example the implementation of the FBK-time component).

If a new component only requires the default two arguments mentioned above most
of the Java code is already in place. Only two steps need to be taken:

1. Add an element to the ModuleFactory enumeration for the new component. The
   arguments are: component name, implementing class (GenericNewsreaderModule
   in this case), module timeout and number of lines in standard error if
   successful.
2. Add the newly added module to the Cascading pipe assembly defined in the
   NewsReaderFlow class.

If a new component requires extra arguments to the run.sh script. One needs to
follow the previous two steps but instead of using a GenericNewsreaderModule as
implementing class one should create one for this module specifically. See the
FBKTime class as an example.

Finally some notes on error handling. As you may have noticed a timeout and
linecount for the standard error stream should be provided for each module. The
timeout is used to stop modules that take longer to execute on a single
document. That is documents that take longer than this threshold will fail on
that specific module. Documents that produce more lines in the standard error
than the threshold will also fail. These documents will be stored on HDFS in
the path supplied as path for failed documents on HDFS.
